---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Pockets of Creativity
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-02-24
labels:
  - Semantic UI
---

### What is your passion in life?

Before we transitioned our online class to in-person, our professor used to give us surveys to fill out at the beginning of our class for attendance. I remember one of those survey's had asked us a fairly simple question: "What is your passion in life?"

Although simple, it's probably a question that you wouldn't often think about unprompted. At least, I didn't. Now, these attendance survey's we took were typically short, so everyone else had answered it fairly quick, but I on the other hand, remember sitting there in slight panic, staring at my computer screen, a little stumped, and with the sudden realization that...maybe...I didn't actually know how to answer that question. To be honest, I think I internalized that question a little too seriously that day. If my life was a movie and I had to capture this revelation in a cartoon, you'd see it in loud exclamations, framed in bright glowing lights. My eyes would be wide and there'd be a distant gong sound in the background. It just kind of made me realize how I was just floating in life, and I started to wonder when exactly I began to feel that way. "Why was I here again? What is my purpose?" 

I thought about "the before." I was really lost thinking about my future, and, if you've followed long enough to read through all my essays, you'd know that Computer Science wasn't actually my first choice. It took me a while before I reached where I am now. So, it was such a relief to me when I had finally decided on Computer Science. It was like the gears aligned and everything clicked in place, I took that feeling and I ran with it. The world was bright and glittery, and I ran as unabashedly as a little kid would: with no fear of scrapes or tumbling down. Now as I sat there forced to rethink my purpose and my passions, I asked myself, "Do I still align with these thoughts? Am I just sticking with this because I feel pressure to see this through? Is this still something I genuinely want to do?" If I really thought about it, the first thought that actually came to mind was "Art." But not in bright exclamations. The thought came as a whisper, weak and easily dismissable. Kind of like the distant memories of your first love, shoved messily away into the back corners of your mind.

Growing up, I've actually always liked all things related to art. Anything that allowed me to express myself creatively, I took in large strides, whether that was painting, sketching, crafting, writing...etc. I went overboard with presentations and projects, I was always greedy for these little pockets of opportunities where I could transform a space with my own branding. Being the oldest child of first generation immigrants, I didn't have to endure the struggles that my parents had to. They were always gone from home because they worked hard to provide for me and my younger brothers, which in turn created pressure; I had to be the role model, I had to grow up fast. I craved an outlet to express myself. My parents are also older and a bit more on the traditional side, which often times made me feel distant from them, so art was one of the few things that allowed me to feel connected to my dad because he used to do a lot of oil paintings and wood carving scultures. On the only hand, there was also a lot of pressure for me to "succeed." My parents spent all this effort to move to America in pursuit of the American dream with the hopes that I would have more opportunities in my future than they did. My chinese name, 采(cǎi) 蓉(róng) (which I've just learned recently), means to pick from a variety of options. My parent's dream is reflected in my name. Both a beautiful sentiment and a weightful burden.

In the end I ended up discarding art and developed an unhealthy relationship with it. I remember in middle school when I confided in my parents about the uncertainty of my future, they reassured me, saying they would support me in whatever I wanted to do in life. But when I met them again with this same topic for their opinion about me pursuing art, they told me that art wasn't worth pursuing. I was confused and disappointed by their contradiction. By freshmen year, I discarded art all together. I traded art electives for STEM electives, I chose activities that would look good in a resume, and by sophmore year of high school, I was dually enrolled at a community college and wracked up 21 college credits upon graduation as my graduating class's valedictorian. I don't say this to boast my accomplishments, but merely to point out how this lead to my burn out. I was tunneled in on a very rigid and boxed idea of success. 

Now, I can't quite recall what I typed out that day for my response, just the way that I felt, but I think I answered that question with what I *thought* my professor would have wanted to hear. That my passion had to do with something computer-related. Because, otherwise, why was I here, sitting in on a software engineering class as a computer science major to soon be pursuing a computer-related field in the future? Thinking about it now, I realize there *is* a way for me to combine the two. It isn't as rigid as art and science, and that art and creativity can expand into the gray fields with bright colors. Moving into Semantic UI for my software engineering class is so exciting. 


